Hi everybody, this is Jen Kramer Welcome
to CSS projects, I'm so
glad that you're here today.
And there is a website to follow
along with this course it is at
projects.css.education, which will
explain all of the instructions for
all of the projects that we
are going to work on today.
So, let me tell you about
this course in general.
So, today we're gonna be working
through six different layout projects.
We're gonna do a style guide, and then
five additional projects that will use
that style guide in terms of putting
together parts of a coffee website,
it's the Coffee Masters website.
The course is designed in a bunch
of different ways, first of all,
it is designed to address different
difficulty levels of difficulty.
So I have suggestions as we go about
how to make these projects a little bit
easier or a little bit more
difficult as you go along the way.
I have some next level suggestions in
there about how you can take these designs
to the next level if
you wanted to do that.
I don't have answers for those next-level
ideas, but they are things like,
if you want to put this in your
portfolio and take it to the next level,
these are some ideas that
you could do to do that.
No JavaScript is required for
anything that we're going to do today,
it is all HTML and CSS, and
we're going to work in CodePen to do that.
I adore CodePen because you focus
on HTML and CSS, you do not work,
focus on workflows, command lines,
frameworks, any other nonsense.
You're gonna focus on the actual code,
HTML and CSS.
It's two thirds of the Front-end, if you
would call yourself a Front-end developer,
you should know HTML and
CSS without frameworks involved.
And then as I said,
as part of that first project,
we're gonna work on some base styling.
And I hope for
some of you who are towards the 1 and
2 end of CSS,
this is an eye-opening experience.
What you wanna do is you wanna
write styles such that they
cascade down into the rest of your design,
and ensures that you will have
consistency through your design,
If you set this up first.
Even if it will never go live,
you've set these styles and
you will then continue to leverage
those as you go into the rest
of the layout projects
that we're going to cover.
Any questions so far?
>> They're asking if if we can
use a framework like tailwind, or
like the person taking the course,
would use a framework.
>> You can do whatever you want, but
I would encourage you to write HTML and
CSS because you ought to learn HTML and
CSS.
Tailwind is not CSS, and by the way,
those of you who are learning Tailwind
to the exclusion of CSS, these
frameworks don't have a long lifetime.
I remember when Bootstrap was the thing,
and
it was never gonna go anywhere ever again,
okay, so Tailwind was the successor.
We're already seeing people talking
about what comes after Tailwind,
frameworks will not stay forever.
So either you're gonna continue to chase
a framework for the rest of your life, or
you can learn the fundamentals, and
you will always know the next framework
because you already know
how the fundamentals work.
So If that is the Front-end Masters
philosophy and it is my philosophy,
it's the reason I love teaching here,
you got to know the fundamentals.
>> Absolutely, you're gonna be much
faster if you know actual CSS.
>> Yes, that's right
>> Peter asks,
are we gonna tackle
the latest CSS features?
>> Yes, well, today we've got Flexbox,
grid, overflow, object fit,
object position, of course the usual
kinds of stuff with colors and
paddings and margins and
all kinds of other craziness.
So I use variables typically for
colors and
fonts because I find students
understand that sort of innately.
If you wanted to do more with variables,
you certainly could do that, yes, and
I'm sure that you could actually do a
whole lot more with variables than what I
do here.
In fact, I've showed that in my advanced
CSS layouts course about how you can
basically use media queries as a way
of just changing values of variables to
change your layouts.
We're not gonna go to that
level here today, but
you could definitely take things
to that level if you wanted to.
>> There was just some discussion around
good ideas on how to learn to practice,
and some people mentioned maybe
looking at designs in Dribbble and
trying to replicate them.
Obviously, this course is
the entire point of it, but
>> That is the entire point of this
course, yes, we will have
a whole series of these designs,
I'm gonna give them to you, and
you will try to replicate them.
And that starts from the style guide and
works the whole way through the course,
you'll see here in just a moment.
All right, so there are four
steps to each of these projects.
These four steps are how you do HTML and
CSS work.
You can take these four steps, put them
in your back pocket, take them to work
tomorrow and apply them if you know these
four steps you are an HTML and CSS master.
It will automatically bump you up one
level in your HTML and CSS knowledge this
is how we do it, okay, so first of all,
we're gonna study the screenshots.
We're gonna have a little bit of
discussion about what you see between
these screenshots,
things we might wanna keep in mind,
things we might wanna plan for
as we work through laying out the design.
Then you're going to code semantic HTML,
so
this is not 25 layers of div,
plus a spam, okay.
This is we're going to work with
articles and sections, figures,
paragraphs lists of the appropriate
type all kinds of things like that.
And we're not gonna worry about how those
things are gonna be grouped with divs and
spans because that is part
of the styling process,
we'll add that as needed
as we move through.
Then you're gonna code the mobile layout,
so the mobile layout is
the first thing that you code,
MobileFirst, that's what it means.
And so you should make sure that your
mobile design is working correctly before
you move on.
We're not gonna bounce between
different break points,
we're gonna start with a mobile design.
We're gonna make sure the mobile
design is working correctly, and
then we move on to however many additional
breakpoints there happened to be.
So don't bounce between breakpoints,
make sure you've got
that mobile clear, and
make sure your HTML starts off semantic,
and you should be able to
create some amazing layouts.
So these are the four steps and we're
going to go through these four steps time
six today so by the time you leave here
[LAUGH] You should be in good shape for
knowing these four steps yes
>> I have a I have a question about
the MobileFirst.
>> Sure.
>> What is the benefit to doing
MobileFirst before worrying about desktop?
>> So MobileFirst has its
origins back when mobile
was just starting to be a thing,
around 2010, 2011.
And Luke W, who is a well-known UX guy,
talked about MobileFirst in two contexts.
One context is how do we plan a website,
and
the other context is how
do we code the website?
So how do we plan it?
If we plan it for
MobileFirst, there's only so
much you can fit on a teensy tiny screen,
which were even smaller back then.
So, in other words, we don't start by
working on a desktop screen where we have
lots of room and then try to
make it work on a mobile device.
We start on a mobile screen, put only the
things that we need to put on that mobile
screen, and then we can spread them out
as we move forward to other devices.
So generally speaking,
you will find things like Bootstrap,
and other various kinds of
frameworks from foundation, UI kit.
There's a whole bunch of them, are written
MobileFirst for this particular reason.